docs/api.md, before:



<!-- toc -->

November 22, 2017

# DESCRIPTION


```
Package: scriptexec
Title: Execute Native Scripts
Version: 0.2.1
Authors@R: person("Sagie", "Gur-Ari", email = "sagiegurari@gmail.com", role = c("aut", "cre"))
Description: Run complex native scripts with a single command, similar to system commands.
License: Apache License 2.0
URL: https://github.com/sagiegurari/scriptexec
BugReports: https://github.com/sagiegurari/scriptexec/issues
Depends: R (>= 3.2.3)
Encoding: UTF-8
RoxygenNote: 6.0.1
Suggests: knitr,
    rmarkdown,
    testthat
VignetteBuilder: knitr
```


# `create_script_file`

Creates a temporary file, writes the provided script content into it and returns the file name.

## Description


 Creates a temporary file, writes the provided script content into it and returns the file name.


## Usage


```r
create_script_file(script = "")

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`script`     |     The script text

## Value


 The temporary file name


## Examples


```r 
 filename <- create_script_file('echo test')

``` 

# `execute`

Executes a script and returns the output.
 The stdout and stderr are captured and returned.
 In case of errors, the exit code will return in the status field.

## Description


 Executes a script and returns the output.
 The stdout and stderr are captured and returned.
 In case of errors, the exit code will return in the status field.


## Usage


```r
execute(script = "", args = c(), env = character(), wait = TRUE,
  runner = NULL)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`script`     |     The script text
`args`     |     Optional script command line arguments (arguments are added as variables in the script named ARG1, ARG2, ...)
`env`     |     Optional character vector of name=value strings to set environment variables
`wait`     |     A TRUE/FALSE parameter, indicating whether the function should wait for the command to finish, or run it asynchronously (output status will be -1)
`runner`     |     The executable used to invoke the script (by default cmd.exe for windows, sh for other platforms)

## Value


 The process output and status code (in case wait=TRUE) in the form of list(status = status, output = output)


## Examples


```r 
 # execute script text
 output <- execute('echo Current Directory:\ndir')
 cat(sprintf('Exit Status: %s Output: %s\n', output$status, output$output))
 
 # execute multiple commands as a script
 output <- execute(c('cd', 'echo User Home:', 'dir'))
 cat(sprintf('Exit Status: %s Output: %s\n', output$status, output$output))
 
 # pass arguments (later defined as ARG1, ARG2, ...) and env vars
 output <- execute('echo $ARG1 $ARG2', args = c('TEST1', 'TEST2'), env = c('MYENV=TEST3'))
 cat(sprintf('%s\n', output))
 
 # non zero status code is returned in case of errors
 output <- execute('exit 1')
 cat(sprintf('Status: %s\n', output$status))
 cat(sprintf('%s\n', output))
 
 #do not wait for command to finish
 execute('echo my really long task', wait = FALSE)

``` 

# `generate_env_setup_script`

Generates and returns a script which sets up the env vars for the script execution.

## Description


 Generates and returns a script which sets up the env vars for the script execution.


## Usage


```r
generate_env_setup_script(env = character())

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`env`     |     Optional character vector of name=value strings to set environment variables

## Value


 The script text which sets up the env


## Examples


```r 
 script <- generate_env_setup_script(c('ENV_TEST=MYENV'))

``` 

# `get_command`

Returns the command and arguments needed to execute the provided script file on the current platform.

## Description


 Returns the command and arguments needed to execute the provided script file on the current platform.


## Usage


```r
get_command(filename, runner = NULL)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`filename`     |     The script file to execute
`runner`     |     The executable used to invoke the script (by default cmd.exe for windows, sh for other platforms)

## Value


 A list holding the command and arguments


## Examples


```r 
 command_struct <- get_command('myfile.sh')
 command <- command_struct$command
 cli_args <- command_struct$args

``` 

# `get_platform_value`

Returns the value based on the current platform.

## Description


 Returns the value based on the current platform.


## Usage


```r
get_platform_value(unix_value, windows_value)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`unix_value`     |     The unix platform value
`windows_value`     |     The windows platform value

## Value


 unix_value in case of unix system, else the windows_value


## Examples


```r 
 platform_value <- get_platform_value('.sh', '.bat')

``` 

# `is_windows`

Returns true if windows, else false.

## Description


 Returns true if windows, else false.


## Usage


```r
is_windows()

```


## Value


 True if windows, else false.


## Examples


```r 
 windows <- is_windows()

``` 

# `modify_script`

Modifies the provided script text and ensures the script content is executed in the correct location.

## Description


 Modifies the provided script text and ensures the script content is executed in the correct location.


## Usage


```r
modify_script(script, args = c(), env = character())

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`script`     |     The script text
`args`     |     Optional script command line arguments
`env`     |     Optional character vector of name=value strings to set environment variables

## Value


 The modified script text


## Examples


```r 
 script <- modify_script(script = 'echo test', args = c('first', 'second'), env = c('MYENV=MYENV'))

``` 

# `scriptexec`

scriptexec: Execute native scripts

## Description


 This package provides one main function: execute which executes the provided script and returns its output.

Commit message:

support flag to print every command before invocation #12

docs/api.md, after:



<!-- toc -->

November 23, 2017

# DESCRIPTION


```
Package: scriptexec
Title: Execute Native Scripts
Version: 0.2.1
Authors@R: person("Sagie", "Gur-Ari", email = "sagiegurari@gmail.com", role = c("aut", "cre"))
Description: Run complex native scripts with a single command, similar to system commands.
License: Apache License 2.0
URL: https://github.com/sagiegurari/scriptexec
BugReports: https://github.com/sagiegurari/scriptexec/issues
Depends: R (>= 3.2.3)
Encoding: UTF-8
RoxygenNote: 6.0.1
Suggests: knitr,
    rmarkdown,
    testthat
VignetteBuilder: knitr
```


# `create_script_file`

Creates a temporary file, writes the provided script content into it and returns the file name.

## Description


 Creates a temporary file, writes the provided script content into it and returns the file name.


## Usage


```r
create_script_file(script = "")

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`script`     |     The script text

## Value


 The temporary file name


## Examples


```r 
 filename <- create_script_file('echo test')

``` 

# `execute`

Executes a script and returns the output.
 The stdout and stderr are captured and returned.
 In case of errors, the exit code will return in the status field.

## Description


 Executes a script and returns the output.
 The stdout and stderr are captured and returned.
 In case of errors, the exit code will return in the status field.


## Usage


```r
execute(script = "", args = c(), env = character(), wait = TRUE,
  runner = NULL, print_commands = FALSE)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`script`     |     The script text
`args`     |     Optional script command line arguments (arguments are added as variables in the script named ARG1, ARG2, ...)
`env`     |     Optional character vector of name=value strings to set environment variables
`wait`     |     A TRUE/FALSE parameter, indicating whether the function should wait for the command to finish, or run it asynchronously (output status will be -1)
`runner`     |     The executable used to invoke the script (by default cmd.exe for windows, sh for other platforms)
`print_commands`     |     True if to print each command before invcation (not available for windows)

## Value


 The process output and status code (in case wait=TRUE) in the form of list(status = status, output = output)


## Examples


```r 
 # execute script text
 output <- execute('echo Current Directory:\ndir')
 cat(sprintf('Exit Status: %s Output: %s\n', output$status, output$output))
 
 # execute multiple commands as a script
 output <- execute(c('cd', 'echo User Home:', 'dir'))
 cat(sprintf('Exit Status: %s Output: %s\n', output$status, output$output))
 
 # pass arguments (later defined as ARG1, ARG2, ...) and env vars
 output <- execute('echo $ARG1 $ARG2', args = c('TEST1', 'TEST2'), env = c('MYENV=TEST3'))
 cat(sprintf('%s\n', output))
 
 # non zero status code is returned in case of errors
 output <- execute('exit 1')
 cat(sprintf('Status: %s\n', output$status))
 cat(sprintf('%s\n', output))
 
 #do not wait for command to finish
 execute('echo my really long task', wait = FALSE)

``` 

# `generate_env_setup_script`

Generates and returns a script which sets up the env vars for the script execution.

## Description


 Generates and returns a script which sets up the env vars for the script execution.


## Usage


```r
generate_env_setup_script(env = character())

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`env`     |     Optional character vector of name=value strings to set environment variables

## Value


 The script text which sets up the env


## Examples


```r 
 script <- generate_env_setup_script(c('ENV_TEST=MYENV'))

``` 

# `get_command`

Returns the command and arguments needed to execute the provided script file on the current platform.

## Description


 Returns the command and arguments needed to execute the provided script file on the current platform.


## Usage


```r
get_command(filename, runner = NULL)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`filename`     |     The script file to execute
`runner`     |     The executable used to invoke the script (by default cmd.exe for windows, sh for other platforms)

## Value


 A list holding the command and arguments


## Examples


```r 
 command_struct <- get_command('myfile.sh')
 command <- command_struct$command
 cli_args <- command_struct$args

``` 

# `get_platform_value`

Returns the value based on the current platform.

## Description


 Returns the value based on the current platform.


## Usage


```r
get_platform_value(unix_value, windows_value)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`unix_value`     |     The unix platform value
`windows_value`     |     The windows platform value

## Value


 unix_value in case of unix system, else the windows_value


## Examples


```r 
 platform_value <- get_platform_value('.sh', '.bat')

``` 

# `is_windows`

Returns true if windows, else false.

## Description


 Returns true if windows, else false.


## Usage


```r
is_windows()

```


## Value


 True if windows, else false.


## Examples


```r 
 windows <- is_windows()

``` 

# `modify_script`

Modifies the provided script text and ensures the script content is executed in the correct location.

## Description


 Modifies the provided script text and ensures the script content is executed in the correct location.


## Usage


```r
modify_script(script, args = c(), env = character(),
  print_commands = FALSE)

```


## Arguments

Argument      |Description
------------- |----------------
`script`     |     The script text
`args`     |     Optional script command line arguments
`env`     |     Optional character vector of name=value strings to set environment variables
`print_commands`     |     True if to print each command before invcation (not available for windows)

## Value


 The modified script text


## Examples


```r 
 script <- modify_script(script = 'echo test', args = c('first', 'second'), env = c('MYENV=MYENV'))

``` 

# `scriptexec`

scriptexec: Execute native scripts

## Description


 This package provides one main function: execute which executes the provided script and returns its output.
